Florence is a child. Her parents don't give her attention, she can't advocate for herself. She starts school and can't make any friends. Her teachers don't like her. Florence can't talk. She meets X on the school bus. It's unlikely X would have sat next to her if there were any more seats, but the desire to sit on a packed bus far outweighs the negative push of a social outcast.

Throughout the school year Florence and X become closer and closer. X was born to love school, while Florence was born to hate it. X wishes it could be elementary school forever. Florence is in desparate need of a change. X wants to stay in the present, while Florence can only hope for the future. X talks to Florence about how someday he hopes they can run away together and live off the land, building a fort up in the trees and catching fish in the river. X doesn't need Florence to talk back to know they share the same desire.

When you're stuck in the present, your only hope is a better future. But when Florence screams for help, no one listens. It's not a wish or a dream for her, it is simply destiny. She must gain more control over her life or her life will lose all meaning. Without control, she will suffer forever, and in the order of the universe her life will be meaningless. For X, on the other hand, there is nothing more cerebral to be said. He lacks the emotional maturity to understand the negatives of his situation, and on a fundamental level is careless about the world. This carefree energy is something he savours, and deep down he hopes to hold on to it forever. With nobody to advocate for them, and nobody to help them, there must be a solution, regardless of where it comes from.

The flame first comes to Florence in a lucid dream state. Due to how destined she is to achieve her goal, the flame is a manifestation of every helping hand that never reached out to her. She was not helped so the natural order of the universe carved a path for her story to still progress.

With the power of the flame, Florence gains the ability to easily see through people, into their wildest ambitions and through the corners of their darkest moments. The flame doesn't gift her intuition, but instead bestows the power of seemless expression. She has always been able to percieve, but now she is able to act. With the power of god in the palm of her hands, she can now help herself, and doesn't need to rely on others. Regardless, she can't help but wonder: if it's this easy, why didn't they just help me in the first place?

Being a young child, Florence can't fully comprehend the power she possesses. She doesn't understand the consequences of her actions, and without proper guidance from an adult, she will easily lose control of herself ("this is why we can't have nice things"). X needs it to be the present forever, Florence needs to guarantee a better future. The flame is the only thing that can accomplish two things at once.

The teachers she doesn't like, the bullies who harrass her, and even the father of X. The world is so full of hate, the only way to make a stainless future is to make the present pure. So she goes about her business, knocking off her targets one by one. She tears into the bullies, and gives her teachers hell. But this world of hate is the one X never wants to give up. There is no compromise, there is no both parties win. It's either destroy or preserve, it can't be both. X doesn't like what the flame is doing to Florence. Unable to comprehend the power either, he wants to stay in the present without change. X lacks the emotional maturity to realize how awful his situation is, particularly how unhappy it makes him.

The tension all comes to a break when X's father decides to send him to a behavioral school, and on their last day of school together, X asks Florence to be his girlfriend. Unable to process this development, Florence follows X off the bus to his home, and has a complete meltdown. Florence had seen his father yelling at him before, but with the power of the flame she will be unstoppable. Breaking through his shell, pushing past his skin and beyond the bone she emerses herself in the essence of X's father, where she puts herself in the crevices of his soul where she can do some real damage. But what she finds there is not a monster, but a boy as broken as herself.

Shocked and horrified of this realization, Florence isolates herself from the world, in a powerful transformation that freezes time throughout the entire town. Stuck in a pseudo limbo, people of the town can neither leave nor grow old. Burdened with the lack of time, the fabric of reality starts to tear. People feel like they've been trapped for an eternity, with no sense of the passage of time. In this rogue state, Florence transformed herself into a tree, running through the entire town. She can hear and see all.

With the town in chaos, X is the only one left who can make things right. He came across many in emotional limbo, but what was even worse was the people far gone enough their existance lacked meaning in the absence of time. These were the people who were still on their journey of finding value, and these were the people most in need of a better future. Completely trapped in the present, these were the people who were stuck standing still.

Those he didn't like were suffering. His teacher was stuck not just perpetually asking for his homework, but talking about her daughter who lives overseas, wondering aloud how she's doing. His bullies couldn't stop crying. His art teacher who always picked on him was turned into a painting. Why did he not meet a similar fate? And more importantly, why was he still not happy? 

Being in the bubble so long, X begins to gain the flame. He follows the roots of the tree throughout the town to find the center of it all, the tree itself completely occupying a massive church. In this state, Florence can finally communicate clearly with X, but still chooses to say nothing. X tells her what he learnt, that the world isn't actually better off in this state. He thought if it could be elementary school forever everyone would be happy, or at least all his friend would be happy and all his enemies would be unhappy. But in the end, simply everyone is suffering.

It is a cold moment for her when she realizes X is no exception, and that she must do the same thing to him she has done to his father, and everyone who has come in the way of her master plan: absolve their ego and become parallel with his soul, as only then will they see eye to eye.

Through an epic fight, X and Florence fight, for what feels like the last time. The bubble of the town seems to pray on the broken part deep inside everyone's soul. While most of the town is suffering and in limbo, X is actually strengthened by the flame. The battle is emotionally charged and dramatic, feeling like it lasts an eternity, but even without the passage of the time the battle must come to an end. Through a moment of weakness, Florence finally breaks through and cracks past the ego of X, peering into his broken soul. But what she finds is just as shocking as with his father: the only crack to be found is from Florence herself.


The pragmatism necessitated by poverty and adversity forces Florence to focus on building a better future. Her progression is breaking free from this and living in the present.

The carefree life of an elementary school student is one that can't last forever, as the passage of time brings the burden of maturity to all. X's progression is giving up his innocence and childhood to care for his family, and accepting the world for what it is: an ever changing monster that can be both beautiful and horrific.